README.md, before:


# Race to the Vatican

Race to the Vatican is a game based on telecommunications phreaking culture that was dominant in the early 70s. Steve Wozniak famously used this method to almost communicate with the Pope by pretending to be someone who he was not, and that was the inspiration for the game.

People used to have ingenuity in exploring public switchable telephone networks by creating blue boxes and generating several thousand Hz tones which was how telecommunications routed lines between each other. This project works off that by creating a 1.1 - 1.8 kHz telemetry tones to navigate between different trunk lines, which is suppose to mirror how early hackers used signaling to seize control of these world wide networks.

The blue box was usually a DIY electronic device that emitted different frequency control tones. Captain Crunch (John Draper), popularized and got in trouble because of the blue box, as he was one of the first to break the way telecommunication lines connect to each other. Race to the Vatican is a mirror of that and why the blue box was a shift in hacker thinking, it was one of the first to get around authentication methods, was one of the first to exploit security engineering, and was a major driver of the Hacker Ethic in wanting openness and free technology for all (whether you agree with hacking the infrastructure or not).

The code here is suppose to mirror the bare bones computers that the early 70s hackers used. While we are using C for this program, rendered with curses and modern APIs to call network adapters and sound cards, this is the minimal footprint necessary to run a full fledged game. The idea was that it was a perfectly portable C game which focused on much of the core components of what made a MUD game a MUD game, trying to mirror the simple computers of the 70s, while still working on modern ones.

This repository is meant as a way to emulate the old MUD games, and is extremely tunable as well as modifiable. There is a simple game class that in config.c creates the map for moving between different trunk lines, and everything is abstracted away so the code can be defined in any way you think it should be. Want to add a timer? Or a watchdog that catches you if you are on a trunk line? Feel free to do so. Want to exploit the memory leaks probably in this game? Go right ahead! This should hopefully be a taste of the phreaking culture and should be fun.

This game does require an Arduino based phreaking device or some noise generation. You can also create a virtual sound card adapter and pipe your audio from a python script through to play as well!

To make the program, utilize CMAKE to build instead of a make file. In order to use CMAKE you need to create a build directory at the same level as source, and then run 'cmake ..' in the directory. To build run 'cmake --build .' in that same directory. The executable is 'race_to_vatican'.

In order to utilize the net features, follow:

Commit message:

Update README with network usage instructions
Added usage instructions for network features.

README.md, after:

# Race to the Vatican

Race to the Vatican is a game based on telecommunications phreaking culture that was dominant in the early 70s. Steve Wozniak famously used this method to almost communicate with the Pope by pretending to be someone who he was not, and that was the inspiration for the game.

People used to have ingenuity in exploring public switchable telephone networks by creating blue boxes and generating several thousand Hz tones which was how telecommunications routed lines between each other. This project works off that by creating a 1.1 - 1.8 kHz telemetry tones to navigate between different trunk lines, which is suppose to mirror how early hackers used signaling to seize control of these world wide networks.

The blue box was usually a DIY electronic device that emitted different frequency control tones. Captain Crunch (John Draper), popularized and got in trouble because of the blue box, as he was one of the first to break the way telecommunication lines connect to each other. Race to the Vatican is a mirror of that and why the blue box was a shift in hacker thinking, it was one of the first to get around authentication methods, was one of the first to exploit security engineering, and was a major driver of the Hacker Ethic in wanting openness and free technology for all (whether you agree with hacking the infrastructure or not).

The code here is suppose to mirror the bare bones computers that the early 70s hackers used. While we are using C for this program, rendered with curses and modern APIs to call network adapters and sound cards, this is the minimal footprint necessary to run a full fledged game. The idea was that it was a perfectly portable C game which focused on much of the core components of what made a MUD game a MUD game, trying to mirror the simple computers of the 70s, while still working on modern ones.

This repository is meant as a way to emulate the old MUD games, and is extremely tunable as well as modifiable. There is a simple game class that in config.c creates the map for moving between different trunk lines, and everything is abstracted away so the code can be defined in any way you think it should be. Want to add a timer? Or a watchdog that catches you if you are on a trunk line? Feel free to do so. Want to exploit the memory leaks probably in this game? Go right ahead! This should hopefully be a taste of the phreaking culture and should be fun.

This game does require an Arduino based phreaking device or some noise generation. You can also create a virtual sound card adapter and pipe your audio from a python script through to play as well!

To make the program, utilize CMAKE to build instead of a make file. In order to use CMAKE you need to create a build directory at the same level as source, and then run 'cmake ..' in the directory. To build run 'cmake --build .' in that same directory. The executable is 'race_to_vatican'.

In order to utilize the net features, follow this:

Usage: ./race_to_vatican [--name NAME] [--port PORT] [--peer IP:PORT]

--name NAME    Your display name (default: player)

--port PORT    UDP bind port (default: 55555)

--peer IP:PORT Peer address to race (optional; set on both machines)

This uses UDP to transit the data over the network, it is suggested to use ND-guest, and find the ip address of your system by using 'ip a', and picking the 10.* address, port should be left the same. In IP:PORT,
